**DISCLAIMER: THIS PAGE IS STILL UNDER DEVELOPMENT.**
**THE INFORMATION HERE MIGHT BE INCORRECT OR OUTDATED.**

# Chip Integration

Using openlane, you can produce a GDSII from a chip RTL.


## The current Methodology

The current methodology views the chip using the following hierarchy:
- Chip Core
    - The hard macros
    - The rest of the design
- Chip IO
    - IO Pads
    - Power Pads
    - Corener Pads

The current methodology goes as follows:
1. Hardening the hard macros.
2. Hardening the core with the hard macros inside it.
3. Hardening the padframe
4. Hardening the full chip with the padframe.


## Hardening The Macros

This is discussed in more detail [here][8].

## Hardening The Core

The chip core would usually have other macros inside it.

You need to set the following environment variables in your `config.tcl` file for the chip core:
- `::env(VERILOG_FILES)` To point at the used verilog files; those that were not previously hardened.
- `::env(VERILOG_FILES_BLACKBOX)` To point at the blackboxes (the hardened macros).
- `::env(EXTRA_LEFS)` To point at the LEF files of the hardened macros.
- `::env(EXTRA_GDS_FILES)` To point at the GDS files of the hardened macros.

Therefore, the verilog files shouldn't have any includes in any of your verilog files. But use `::env(VERILOG_FILES)` and `::env(VERILOG_FILES_BLACKBOX)` for that purpose.

Add `set ::env(SYNTH_READ_BLACKBOX_LIB) 1`, if you have std cells hard coded in your RTL.

You can follow the same instructions provided [here][8] for the rest of the hardenning steps.

In case you want to manually place the macros in specific locations, [this][9] should provide a good example on how to do it. This is done by creating a configuration file containing an endline separated list of `instance_name X_pos Y_pos Orientation` and pointing to it with this configuartion: `::env(MACRO_PLACEMENT_CFG)`.

[Here][0] you can find a list of all the available OpenLANE configuartions.

Check this [section](#power-routing) for more details on power routing setup.

## Hardening The Full Chip


The full chip requires an [interactive script][2] to harden. You could take this [full chip][5] as an example.

First you need to harden the padframe as a separate macro, check [this flow][4] as an example on how to do so.

You need to set the following environment variables in your `config.tcl` file for the chip:
- `::env(VERILOG_FILES)` To point at the used verilog files; those that were not previously hardened. Ideally, this should be only one file.
- `::env(VERILOG_FILES_BLACKBOX)` To point at the blackboxes (the hardened macros). Ideally, this should include all the other verilog files.
- `::env(EXTRA_LEFS)` To point at the LEF files of the hardened core macro.
- `::env(EXTRA_GDS_FILES)` To point at the GDS files of the hardened core macro.

Therefore, the verilog files shouldn't have any includes in any of your verilog files. But use `::env(VERILOG_FILES)` and `::env(VERILOG_FILES_BLACKBOX)` for that purpose.

Add `set ::env(SYNTH_READ_BLACKBOX_LIB) 1`, if you have std cells hard coded in your RTL.

Add `set ::env(SYNTH_FLAT_TOP) 1` to your `config.tcl`. To flatten the padframe, if it's presented in a `chip_io` module, otherwise you can harden it separately as indicated in [this flow][4].

The following inputs are provided to produce the final GDSII:

1. Padframe cfg file (provided by the user or generated by padring). [Here][6] is an example. Or a hardened chip_io.gds and chip_io.lef following [this][4].
2. Hardened lef & GDS-II for the core module, generated [here](#hardening-the-core)
3. Top level netlist instantiating pads and core module (Could be provided by the user or generated by [topModuleGen][7])

[The interactive script for the IOs][4] does the following:
- Sources configurations.
- Elaborates the verilog.
- Runs floorplan.
- Uses padringer.py to generate the padframe.
- Adds the obstructions to the core area, and removes core nets and pins.
- Routes.
- Streams out the GDS-II and the LEFv view.

Given these inputs the following [interactive script][5] script. Mainly, it does the following steps:
-  Runs the top level netlist through yosys.
-  Runs floorplan.
-  Performs manual placement of the core macros, this sample has many cores, however for full automation you should have only a single core.
-  legalize the placement.
-  Removes Nets and Pins to a different file.
-  This stages is skipped because the design has many cores and so fully automated power routing is not possible. However if you only have a single core, you can perform automatic power routing by adding `power_routing` at this stage in your interactive script.
-  Route the design.
-  Perform power routing.
-  Generate a GDSII file of the routed design.
-  Run DRC and LVS checks [here][11].

## Power_routing

### Macros:

This is discussed in detail [here][8].

### Core:

It should have an `stdcell` section that includes a `core_ring` on met4 and met5. It should use met5 and met4 for the straps, and met1 for the rails. Thus, make sure to add these to your config file:

```tcl
set ::env(DESIGN_IS_CORE) 1
set ::env(FP_PDN_CORE_RING) 1
```

You can automate the power routing process in the core and macro level by reading [this documentation][10]. Otherwise, refer to [this][3] for more details about the syntax. In case you needed to create your own `pdn.tcl` then point to it using `PDN_CFG`.

When you use the `power_routing` command in the chip interactive script, the power pads will be connected to the core ring, and thus the whole chip would be powered.

## General Notes:

[This][2] includes more guidance on how to create an interactive script.

[This][0] documents all OpenLANE configurations.

[This][1] has a description for all OpenLANE commands.

[0]: ./../../configuration/README.md
[1]: ./OpenLANE_commands.md
[2]: ./advanced_readme.md
[3]: https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/pdngen/doc/PDN.md
[4]: https://github.com/efabless/caravel/blob/mpw-one-b/openlane/chip_io/interactive.tcl
[5]: https://github.com/efabless/caravel/blob/mpw-one-b/openlane/caravel/interactive.tcl
[6]: https://github.com/efabless/caravel/blob/mpw-one-b/openlane/chip_io/padframe.cfg
[7]: ./../../scripts/topModuleGen/README.md
[8]: ./hardening_macros.md
[9]: https://github.com/efabless/openlane/tree/master/designs/manual_macro_placement_test
[10]: ./advanced_power_grid_control.md
[11]: https://github.com/efabless/caravel/blob/mpw-one-b/openlane/caravel/interactive.lvs.tcl
